RB: Rosminah/Rob

DJ - Donald/Jessie

Passive Voice: Aaron

Passive Bum: No Comment

1 lb tomatillo

Half an onion (white if in doubt) (DJ/RB: 1 whole yellow, half too mild)

1 medium avocado (DJ: I would recommend a second one/two to chop in to provide more coarse avo, like El Farolito) (RB: one Don Brown avocado makes it very dreamy creamy)

2 jalapenos (or Serrano) (DJ: 6 Serrano provided some zest without being nuts; most of a bag of jalapenos was divine) (RB: at least 2 jalapenos to fit minimum heat requirements)

1t salt (DJ: We added more salt ~5 times)(RB: we think Aaron may have put 1 teaspoon, but it’s really 1 Tablespoon)

1-2 clove garlic

1-2 large lettuce (romaine) leaves (DJ: foresaken in favour of more jalapeno to very good effect)(RB: lettuce. WHY?? Skip it)

2T lime juice (1 lime is 2T: https://spoonacular.com/academy/lemons-and-limes)

½ Cup cilantro

Note on blending: if you have large chunks it is difficult to get the blender going.  Stick blender works fine with large chunks.  A small dice of the tomatillos for the first few inches of the blender also works for getting it started.

Next time I make this at home, I’ll add mass to everything.

The tomatillo flavor is strong the first day and more mellow the second day.  I think it’s best on the second day, ok on the third day, but then fades and should be consumed by the fifth.  If you end up with leftovers, it’s possible that adding a fresh tomatillo on day 3 or 4 or 5 would spruce it up substantially.

Onions:

I’ve tried red, white, sweet, and yellow onions.  They all seem to work fine.  Some people are more sensitive to onions than I am, but I haven’t had any complaints yet.  I kinda want to walk the onion content up to the point where I decide to walk it down, but it hasn’t happened yet.  

Spice:

I think 4 serrano’s is tasty and kinda spicy; others say it’s aggressive but not intolerable.  1 serrano and 1 jalapeno resulted in a level of spice that the less spice tolerant rated “tasty and spicy but not too spicy”.  1 jalapeno was rated inferior by the same crowd.  

I think there is room for experimentation with other peppers here.  In particular, I’d like to try habanero, though the color doesn’t match.

Garlic:

  I need to weigh this.  2 medium-large cloves is too much

Lime:

  Tomatillo is already kinda tart, so I’d like to try making a batch with and without lime to see if I can even tell.  Always nice to eliminate extraneous ingredients.

Cilantro:

  It’s fine without cilantro if someone thinks it tastes like soap.  If everyone like cilantro, you could throw in as much as you want.  A small amount as garnish(instead of the full .5c) also seems reasonable.

Salt:

  1t seems ok.  I haven’t experimented with this.  I do use salty chips though.

Avocado: I thought more avocado would be better, but I’m surprised at how little is needed.  Half a large avocado is sufficient.

Lettuce:  I’ve used romaine and iceberg.  Room for experimentation here.

Random: Scallions might make a nice garnish for this.

Sugar: A dash of sugar enhances the taste of tomatoes